In the modern web development, there is a very commonly used term called component based architecture.
Component based architecture is the approach most of the modern frameworks also implement.
Let me explain what it means.
Consider this Web page, which has a menu, a search bar, title card and other cards.
Now, with the traditional approach, you consider this as an entire page and develop or design in a
sequence.
But in component based approach, you divide all these in smaller components and they are eventually
merged to make a web page.
In short, the functionalities of a web page are divided into smaller segments, and that is what a
component based architecture is.
And to implement this architecture, you should create web components.
Web component is a newer way for web development.
The advantages of web components are unlimited, but to count a few, the code gets more manageable.
Development becomes easy, especially for multiple developers working on a single page and parallelly
they work on different components.
Maintenance or error handling becomes more specific to a region or component.
Less development time as the design is divided into smaller segments.
They are easy to share among other developers.
So it increases the reusability.
It's done in JavaScript without any dependencies.
It means your application uses more and more native features rather than depending on third party frameworks.
To understand the web components.
We are also going to implement this particular page where each product is displayed using a custom card
component.
You can see there is a header section.
I have just shown this to illustrate that in the real life applications you will have some menu or header
section, then you have some products to display.
So each card is displaying the image of the product, some text, and maybe some option which allows
you to buy.
We will have our own custom HTML tag named product card, which will display this one product at a time.
Now if we switch to the code window, you can see that for every card displayed we have a division.
Each division is having somewhere around 9 to 10 lines.
Those nine or ten lines are actually displaying one card.
When we implement this web component, we will not need these lines.
Instead of these lines, you will just have to write the custom HTML tag.
That is, in our case, it will be product dash card.
This.
We have returned once.
It means it is going to show the entire card.
If you put this product card tag four times, it will display the product component, the product card
four times.
And here each product card is going to be a custom HTML element.
Let's start implementing web components practically.